kubernetes/README.md, before:

# TIBCO JasperReports&reg; Server with Kubernetes

# Table of contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
1. [JasperReports Server Image Installation](#jasperreports-server-image-installation)
1. [Configure and Start the Jaspersoft repository database](#configure-and-start-the-jaspersoft-repository-database)
1. [Configure the JasperReports Server service](#configure-the-jasperreports-server-service)
1. [Launch the JasperReports Server service](#launch-the-jasperreports-server-service)
1. [Logging in to JasperReports Server ](#logging-in-to-jasperreports-server)

# Introduction

These configuration files perform
[declarative configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/declarative-config/)
with `kubectl apply` to deploy JasperReports Server within Kubernetes (k8s).

These Kubernetes configurations leverage images created via [https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker](#https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker)
and configuration options for the JasperReports Server containers are defined there.

You must change the environment variables and declarative configuration to fit with your deployment environment,
such as the platform - Docker for Windows/Mac, Minikube, Amazon EKS, Azure AKS, ... -
and how you want to deploy JasperReports Server:
- exposed to the outside world directly: NodePort, Ingress, LoadBalancer
- JasperReports Server repository database location: within or external to Kubernetes
- use of environment variables and volumes
- use of secrets for license and keystores

This configuration has been certified using
the PostgreSQL 9 database with JasperReports Server 6.4+
and with PostgreSQL 10 for JasperReports Server 7.2+.

Knowledge of Docker, Kubernetes and your infrastructure is required.

For more information about Docker and containers, see the [official documentation for Docker](https://docs.docker.com/).

For more information about Kubernetes, see the [official documentation for Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/).

For more information about JasperReports Server, see:
- [Jaspersoft Quick Start](https://www.jaspersoft.com/quick-start).
- [Jaspersoft community](http://community.jaspersoft.com/).

# Prerequisites

The following software is required or recommended:

- [docker-engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation) version 1.18 or higher
- (*required*) TIBCO Jaspersoft&reg; commercial license.
  - Contact your sales representative for information about licensing.
- (*Recommended*) for development - they include Kubernetes:
  - [Docker Desktop for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)
  - [Docker Desktop for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
- (*optional*)[kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) version 1.10 or higher
- (*optional*) Preconfigured PostgreSQL 9, 10 or 11 database. If you do not currently have a PostgreSQL instance, you can create a PostgreSQL container at run time.

# Build the Kubernetes specific command line image

Build the main `jasperserver-pro:<version>` and `jasperserver-pro-cmdline:<version>` images in the js-docker directory.

In this directory, run:

`docker build -f Dockerfile-cmdline-k8s -t jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-<version> .`

# Configure the JasperReports Server service

By default, this is a basic deployment, standing up a single instance service, exposed to the outside world through a LoadBalancer.
The init-container in the Service, which runs a cmdline image, ensures that the JasperReports Server repository exists and the keystore files are created in the correct volume, prior to the JaspeReports Server web application starts.

- Modify the environment variables as needed: Refer to [JasperReports Server Docker environment variables](https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker#docker-run-time-environment-variables)
- It refers to the repository via `DB_HOST`, which in the default configuration is the `postgresql` service within k8s defined above.
- Do k8s level configuration, such as pods, NodePort or LoadBalancer, use of secrets etc.
  - You can set the NodePort the Server will run on or change the network access as you see fit.
- Decide on secrets and volumes below.

# Secrets and Volumes

Your JasperReports Server license is in a secret.

`kubectl create secret generic jasperserver-pro-license --from-file=jasperserver.license=./jasperserver.license`

Use the secret as a volume in both the init and main containers.

```
        volumeMounts:
        - name: license
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/license"
          readOnly: true

      volumes:
      - name: license
        secret:
          secretName: jasperserver-pro-license
```

See the main [README](https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker#configuring_jasperreports_server_with_volumes) for details of other volumes.

# Saving Keystores

JasperReports Server keystore files need to be saved when the repository database is created or the keystore is updated via the js-import and js-export command line tools.
Here are two approaches to keystore storage:
- Using a persistent volume
- Using a Secret

## A Kubernetes Secret for keystore files

Keystore files can be maintained in a Secret. The cmdline:k8s init container or job creates and updates the keystore secret. This set of files creates the JasperReports Server environment:

| command | Notes |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| `kubectl apply -f namespace-rbac.yaml` | creates the "jaspersoft" namespace and the "jasper-robot" service account with a role that allows the JasperReports Server containers to update the keystore secret "jasperserver-pro-jrsks" |
| `kubectl apply -f secrets.yaml` | create the keystore secret "jasperserver-pro-jrsks" |

You can pre-load the keystore files, too, before you run the server or the command line against a new repository database.

`kubectl create secret generic jasperserver-pro-jrsks -n jaspersoft --from-file=.jrsks=./.jrsks  --from-file=.jrsksp=./.jrsksp`

These secret needs to be mapped as volumes into the containers.
You need to map a volume for configuration files created by the init container. At least:

```
      volumes:
      - name: keystore-files-secret
        secret:
          secretName: jasperserver-pro-jrsks
      - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```

And then use the secret with the containers. For the init container, use the cmdline:k8s image.

```
      initContainers:
      - name: init
        image: jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-7.5.0
        env:
          #- name: KEYSTORE_SECRET_NAME
          #  value: "jasperserver-pro-jrsks"

        volumeMounts:

        # have the keystore secret under its own path.
        # init container will maintain the keystore files in 
        # /usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/keystore
        # and update the secret if needed

        - name: keystore-files-secret
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro-secrets/jasperserver-pro-jrsks"
          readOnly: true

        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: false
```

And for the JasperReports Server web application container:

```
      containers:
      - name: jasperserver-pro
        image: jasperserver-pro:7.5.0
        env:

        volumeMounts:
        - name: license
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro-secrets/license"
          readOnly: true

        # web app accesses the keystore secret directly
        - name: keystore-files-secret
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/keystore"
          readOnly: true

        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: true
```

## Persistent Volume for the keystore files

An alternative is to have a persistent volume. See `local-pv.yaml` as an example.
Run via `kubectl apply -f local-pv.yaml`

Review `jasperreports-server-k8s-volume.yaml`

Include the persistent volume in the service.
```
      volumes:
      - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: jasperreports-server-pv-claim
```

And then use the persistent volume with the containers. For the init container, use the base cmdline image.

```
      initContainers:
      - name: init
        image: jasperserver-pro-cmdline:7.5.0
        env:
        volumeMounts:
        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: false
```

for the web application:

```
      containers:
      - name: jasperserver-pro
        image: jasperserver-pro:7.5.0
        env:
        ports:
        volumeMounts:
        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: true
```

# Additional environment variables

For the cmdline:

| Environment Variable Name | Notes |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| `KEYSTORE_SECRET_NAME` | When using a secret to store the keystore files, this is the secret name where keystore files will be stored. Used in volumeMount paths. Default: jasperserver-pro-jrsks | 

# Configure and Start the Jaspersoft repository database

This JasperReports Server deloyment to Docker and k8s uses a PostgreSQL database to store configuration information.

You can run the repository outside k8s.
- You will need to set the DB_\* environment variables in the k8s configuration to point to the external database.

Or run the PostgreSQL repository inside k8s, which is the default approach taken with this configuration.
- edit `repository-database.yaml` to suit your environment.
  - This creates a persistent volume and the `postgresql` service in k8s 
  - set volume name, username, password, use secrets etc according to your requirements
- use kubectl to create the postgresql service: `kubectl apply -f postgres-k8s.yaml`

See the main README for details on how to use other databases for the repository apart from PostgreSQL.

# Launch the JasperReports Server service

Launch the JasperReports Server.

Update the references to images you have built ie. if you deployed the images into your Amazon ECR, then you will need to update your references to :
<AWS Account>.dkr.ecr.<AWS region for ECR>.amazonaws.com/jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-7.5.0

For keystores in secrets: `kubectl apply -f jasperreports-server-service-deployment.yaml`
- An initContainer manages the repository database initialization and keystore creation.
- ConfigMap for Deployment.
- Service: ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer.

Otherwise launch via volumes only: `kubectl apply -f jasperreports-server-k8s-volume.yaml`

# Troubleshooting

When running the service with keystore files in a secret, this error:
`Error from server (Forbidden): secrets \"jasperserver-pro-jrsks\" is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:default:default" cannot get secrets in the namespace "default"`
comes from the cmdline init-container not having permissions to update the secret. Check the Role being set for the namespace and the service account linked to it.

# Logging in to JasperReports Server 

After the JasperReports Server container is up, log into it via URL from a browser.

You can find the IP and port via:
```
PS > kubectl get services
NAME                   TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
jasperreports-server   NodePort    10.96.1.127    <none>        8080:31562/TCP   3m
kubernetes             ClusterIP   10.96.0.1      <none>        443/TCP          1d
postgresql             ClusterIP   10.100.26.80   <none>        5432/TCP         4m

or:

jasperserver-pro       LoadBalancer   10.100.138.114   ab62d98fe4d3d11eab1980665fc8fbc6-1620952781.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com   80:30650/TCP,443:30961/TCP   3h22m
p
```

31562 indicated above is the NodePort for the jasperreports-server service in the PORT(S) column.

So login via: `http://<host>:<port>/jasperserver-pro`

Where:

- host : name or IP address of your k8s cluster.
- port : port the jasperreports-server service is running on.

JasperReports Server ships with the following default credentials:

- superuser/superuser - System-wide administrator
- jasperadmin/jasperadmin - Administrator for the default organization

# Copyright
Copyright &copy; 2019-2020. TIBCO Software Inc.
This file is subject to the license terms contained
in the license file that is distributed with this file.
___

TIBCO, Jaspersoft, and JasperReports are trademarks or
registered trademarks of TIBCO Software Inc.
in the United States and/or other countries.

Docker is a trademark or registered trademark of Docker, Inc.
in the United States and/or other countries.

Commit message:

Allow use of Linux images with the yum package manager
JasperReports Server Dockerfiles use Linux package management. Default has been to use apt-get, as tomcat and openjdk Dockerhub official images use Debian. Add detection and use of yum on images, allowing use of CentOS, Red Hat, Amazon Linux 2 and other Linux distrbutions in Tomcat and Java base images.

kubernetes/README.md, after:

# TIBCO JasperReports&reg; Server with Kubernetes

# Table of contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
1. [JasperReports Server Image Installation](#jasperreports-server-image-installation)
1. [Configure and Start the Jaspersoft repository database](#configure-and-start-the-jaspersoft-repository-database)
1. [Configure the JasperReports Server service](#configure-the-jasperreports-server-service)
1. [Launch the JasperReports Server service](#launch-the-jasperreports-server-service)
1. [Logging in to JasperReports Server ](#logging-in-to-jasperreports-server)

# Introduction

These configuration files perform
[declarative configuration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/declarative-config/)
with `kubectl apply` to deploy JasperReports Server within Kubernetes (k8s).

These Kubernetes configurations leverage images created via [https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker](#https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker)
and configuration options for the JasperReports Server containers are defined there.

You must change the environment variables and declarative configuration to fit with your deployment environment,
such as the platform - Docker for Windows/Mac, Minikube, Amazon EKS, Azure AKS, ... -
and how you want to deploy JasperReports Server:
- exposed to the outside world directly: NodePort, Ingress, LoadBalancer
- JasperReports Server repository database location: within or external to Kubernetes
- use of environment variables and volumes
- use of secrets for license and keystores

This configuration has been certified using
the PostgreSQL 9 database with JasperReports Server 6.4+
and with PostgreSQL 10 for JasperReports Server 7.2+.

Knowledge of Docker, Kubernetes and your infrastructure is required.

For more information about Docker and containers, see the [official documentation for Docker](https://docs.docker.com/).

For more information about Kubernetes, see the [official documentation for Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/).

For more information about JasperReports Server, see:
- [Jaspersoft Quick Start](https://www.jaspersoft.com/quick-start).
- [Jaspersoft community](http://community.jaspersoft.com/).

# Prerequisites

The following software is required or recommended:

- [docker-engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation) version 1.18 or higher
- (*required*) TIBCO Jaspersoft&reg; commercial license.
  - Contact your sales representative for information about licensing.
- (*Recommended*) for development - they include Kubernetes:
  - [Docker Desktop for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)
  - [Docker Desktop for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
- (*optional*)[kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) version 1.10 or higher
- (*optional*) Preconfigured PostgreSQL 9, 10 or 11 database. If you do not currently have a PostgreSQL instance, you can create a PostgreSQL container at run time.

# Build the Kubernetes specific command line image

Build the main `jasperserver-pro:<version>` and `jasperserver-pro-cmdline:<version>` images in the js-docker directory.

In this directory, run:

`docker build -f Dockerfile-cmdline-k8s -t jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-<version> .`

| Environment Variable Name | Notes |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| `JASPERREPORTS_SERVER_IMAGE_TAG` | Tag of jasperserver-pro-cmdline image to base this image on. `jasperserver-pro-cmdline:<JASPERREPORTS_SERVER_IMAGE_TAG>` Default: `7.5.0` |
| `JASPERREPORTS_SERVER_VERSION` | Version number used in file names. Default: `7.5.0` | 


# Configure the JasperReports Server service

By default, this is a basic deployment, standing up a single instance service, exposed to the outside world through a LoadBalancer.
The init-container in the Service, which runs a cmdline image, ensures that the JasperReports Server repository exists and the keystore files are created in the correct volume, prior to the JaspeReports Server web application starts.

- Modify the environment variables as needed: Refer to [JasperReports Server Docker environment variables](https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker#docker-run-time-environment-variables)
- It refers to the repository via `DB_HOST`, which in the default configuration is the `postgresql` service within k8s defined above.
- Do k8s level configuration, such as pods, NodePort or LoadBalancer, use of secrets etc.
  - You can set the NodePort the Server will run on or change the network access as you see fit.
- Decide on secrets and volumes below.

# Secrets and Volumes

Your JasperReports Server license is in a secret.

`kubectl create secret generic jasperserver-pro-license --from-file=jasperserver.license=./jasperserver.license`

Use the secret as a volume in both the init and main containers.

```
        volumeMounts:
        - name: license
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/license"
          readOnly: true

      volumes:
      - name: license
        secret:
          secretName: jasperserver-pro-license
```

See the main [README](https://github.com/TIBCOSoftware/js-docker#configuring_jasperreports_server_with_volumes) for details of other volumes.

# Saving Keystores

JasperReports Server keystore files need to be saved when the repository database is created or the keystore is updated via the js-import and js-export command line tools.
Here are two approaches to keystore storage:
- Using a persistent volume
- Using a Secret

## A Kubernetes Secret for keystore files

Keystore files can be maintained in a Secret. The cmdline:k8s init container or job creates and updates the keystore secret. This set of files creates the JasperReports Server environment:

| command | Notes |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| `kubectl apply -f namespace-rbac.yaml` | creates the "jaspersoft" namespace and the "jasper-robot" service account with a role that allows the JasperReports Server containers to update the keystore secret "jasperserver-pro-jrsks" |
| `kubectl apply -f secrets.yaml` | create the keystore secret "jasperserver-pro-jrsks" |

You can pre-load the keystore files, too, before you run the server or the command line against a new repository database.

`kubectl create secret generic jasperserver-pro-jrsks -n jaspersoft --from-file=.jrsks=./.jrsks  --from-file=.jrsksp=./.jrsksp`

These secret needs to be mapped as volumes into the containers.
You need to map a volume for configuration files created by the init container. At least:

```
      volumes:
      - name: keystore-files-secret
        secret:
          secretName: jasperserver-pro-jrsks
      - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
        emptyDir: {}
```

And then use the secret with the containers. For the init container, use the cmdline:k8s image.

```
      initContainers:
      - name: init
        image: jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-7.5.0
        env:
          #- name: KEYSTORE_SECRET_NAME
          #  value: "jasperserver-pro-jrsks"

        volumeMounts:

        # have the keystore secret under its own path.
        # init container will maintain the keystore files in 
        # /usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/keystore
        # and update the secret if needed

        - name: keystore-files-secret
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro-secrets/jasperserver-pro-jrsks"
          readOnly: true

        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: false
```

And for the JasperReports Server web application container:

```
      containers:
      - name: jasperserver-pro
        image: jasperserver-pro:7.5.0
        env:

        volumeMounts:
        - name: license
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro-secrets/license"
          readOnly: true

        # web app accesses the keystore secret directly
        - name: keystore-files-secret
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro/keystore"
          readOnly: true

        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: true
```

## Persistent Volume for the keystore files

An alternative is to have a persistent volume. See `local-pv.yaml` as an example.
Run via `kubectl apply -f local-pv.yaml`

Review `jasperreports-server-k8s-volume.yaml`

Include the persistent volume in the service.
```
      volumes:
      - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: jasperreports-server-pv-claim
```

And then use the persistent volume with the containers. For the init container, use the base cmdline image.

```
      initContainers:
      - name: init
        image: jasperserver-pro-cmdline:7.5.0
        env:
        volumeMounts:
        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: false
```

for the web application:

```
      containers:
      - name: jasperserver-pro
        image: jasperserver-pro:7.5.0
        env:
        ports:
        volumeMounts:
        - name: jasperserver-pro-volume
          mountPath: "/usr/local/share/jasperserver-pro"
          readOnly: true
```

# Additional runtime environment variables

See runtime environment variables for the main jasperservr-pro-cmdline image in master README.

For the jasperservr-pro-cmdline:k8s image:

| Environment Variable Name | Notes |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| `KEYSTORE_SECRET_NAME` | When using a secret to store the keystore files, this is the secret name where keystore files will be stored. Used in volumeMount paths. Default: jasperserver-pro-jrsks | 

# Configure and Start the Jaspersoft repository database

This JasperReports Server deloyment to Docker and k8s uses a PostgreSQL database to store configuration information.

You can run the repository outside k8s.
- You will need to set the DB_\* environment variables in the k8s configuration to point to the external database.

Or run the PostgreSQL repository inside k8s, which is the default approach taken with this configuration.
- edit `repository-database.yaml` to suit your environment.
  - This creates a persistent volume and the `postgresql` service in k8s 
  - set volume name, username, password, use secrets etc according to your requirements
- use kubectl to create the postgresql service: `kubectl apply -f postgres-k8s.yaml`

See the main README for details on how to use other databases for the repository apart from PostgreSQL.

# Launch the JasperReports Server service

Launch the JasperReports Server.

Update the references to images you have built ie. if you deployed the images into your Amazon ECR, then you will need to update your references to :
<AWS Account>.dkr.ecr.<AWS region for ECR>.amazonaws.com/jasperserver-pro-cmdline:k8s-7.5.0

For keystores in secrets: `kubectl apply -f jasperreports-server-service-deployment.yaml`
- An initContainer manages the repository database initialization and keystore creation.
- ConfigMap for Deployment.
- Service: ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer.

Otherwise launch via volumes only: `kubectl apply -f jasperreports-server-k8s-volume.yaml`

# Troubleshooting

When running the service with keystore files in a secret, this error:
`Error from server (Forbidden): secrets \"jasperserver-pro-jrsks\" is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:default:default" cannot get secrets in the namespace "default"`
comes from the cmdline init-container not having permissions to update the secret. Check the Role being set for the namespace and the service account linked to it.

# Logging in to JasperReports Server 

After the JasperReports Server container is up, log into it via URL from a browser.

You can find the IP and port via:
```
PS > kubectl get services
NAME                   TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
jasperreports-server   NodePort    10.96.1.127    <none>        8080:31562/TCP   3m
kubernetes             ClusterIP   10.96.0.1      <none>        443/TCP          1d
postgresql             ClusterIP   10.100.26.80   <none>        5432/TCP         4m

or:

jasperserver-pro       LoadBalancer   10.100.138.114   ab62d98fe4d3d11eab1980665fc8fbc6-1620952781.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com   80:30650/TCP,443:30961/TCP   3h22m
p
```

31562 indicated above is the NodePort for the jasperreports-server service in the PORT(S) column.

So login via: `http://<host>:<port>/jasperserver-pro`

Where:

- host : name or IP address of your k8s cluster.
- port : port the jasperreports-server service is running on.

JasperReports Server ships with the following default credentials:

- superuser/superuser - System-wide administrator
- jasperadmin/jasperadmin - Administrator for the default organization

# Copyright
Copyright &copy; 2019-2020. TIBCO Software Inc.
This file is subject to the license terms contained
in the license file that is distributed with this file.
___

TIBCO, Jaspersoft, and JasperReports are trademarks or
registered trademarks of TIBCO Software Inc.
in the United States and/or other countries.

Docker is a trademark or registered trademark of Docker, Inc.
in the United States and/or other countries.
